555MaintenanceChapterChapterChapterIn This Chapter...
PLC Maintenance  ......................................................................................................................... 5–2PLC Maintenance
Although the CLICK PLC requires very little maintenance, setting up a routine maintenance 
schedule will ensure the longevity of the PLC in your application.  We suggest checking the 
following items as part of a quarterly or bi-annual preventative maintenance schedule.
Check LED Indicators
Check the PWR and ERR LED indicators on the PLC and I/O modules.  If the PWR LED 
indicator is off or flickering, or if the ERR indicator is on or flickering, refer to Chapter 6: 
Troubleshooting for more information.
Project Backup
Saving a copy of the project file during routine maintenance ensures that you will have a 
fairly up-to-date backup copy of the PLC program.  Although the CLICK PLC programming 
software can upload the complete project from the PLC anytime the PLC is operable, it is wise 
to maintain a project backup in case the PLC becomes inoperable and has to be replaced.  The 
backup file of the project can then be downloaded into the new PLC. 
Check Operating Environment
Make sure that the CLICK PLC is operating within the proper temperature range  
(0–55°C; 32–131°F).
Make sure that the CLICK PLC is operating within the proper humidity range  
(30–95% RH, non-condensing).
Make sure that the CLICK PLC operating environment is free of corrosive gases.
Check Operating Voltage
Check the input voltage that is powering the CLICK PLC to make sure that the voltage is 
within the appropriate range (20–28 VDC).
Check the input voltage for the I/O module terminal blocks. Refer to Chapter 2:  Specifications 
for the voltage specifications of the various I/O modules.
C0-00DD1- D
24VDC Power Connector
Check the input voltage here,
at the power input terminal.
CLICK PLC Hardware User Manual , 6th Edition, Rev. O  – C0-USER-M5–2
Chapter 5: MaintenanceCheck Physical Condition
Check the PLC and modules for distorted, warped, or discolored cases and burnt odors that 
could indicate overheated components.
Check to ensure that none of the PLC and module cooling vents are clogged or blocked by 
dust or debris.  Make sure that there is sufficient unobstructed heat dissipation space around 
the PLC as shown in Chapter 3: Installation and Wiring .
Ensure that all of the CLICK PLC modules are connected together tightly.  Also make sure that 
all communication cables, wiring, and terminal blocks are connected properly.
WARNING: The CLICK PLC does not have hot swap capability. Do not disconnect or replace any I/O modules 
without first shutting off power to the PLC unit.
Check Project Functionality
During routine maintenance, check the functionality of your project (PLC program).  Make 
sure the system or equipment that is being controlled is operating as intended.
Check the PLC Program from CLICK PLC Programming Software
You can read the following PLC information from CLICK PLC programming software:
• System configuration.  
Check whether or not the PLC unit is recognizing the actual I/O configuration correctly.
• Error history.  
Check whether or not any errors occurred recently.
• Scan time.  
Check whether or not the scan time is normal, and if the minimum 
and maximum scan times are reasonable.  Refer to Chapter 2: 
Specifications for information regarding scan times.
CLICK PLC Hardware User Manual , 6th Edition, Rev. O  – C0-USER-M5–3
Chapter 5: Maintenance