Essay on Climate and Food

Climate change is bad for growing food. The weather is getting weird and farmers dont know what to do anymore. This essay talks about these problems.

First of all, its getting hotter everywhere. Plants need water and sun to grow but now theres too much sun and not enough water in alot of places. When I was younger the weather was more normal but now its always changing. My uncle who is a farmer says its harder to grow things now.

The main problem is that crops are dying. Corn and wheat and other foods we eat everyday are not growing good anymore. Scientists say the temperature is going up by alot of degrees. This kills the plants or makes them grow badly. Also bugs that eat crops are surviving better in warm weather so they eat more crops.

Rain is another big issue that effects farming. Sometimes it rains too much and floods everything. Other times it doesnt rain at all for months. Both situations are bad for farming. You need just the right amount of rain at the right time. Climate change messes this up completely. 

Some countries have it worse then others. Poor countries cant deal with these problems because they dont have money for technology or new seeds. Rich countries like america have better technology so they can handle it better but even they are struggling sometimes.

People are trying different things to fix this. Some scientists are making new types of plants that can survive in hot weather. Farmers are trying different ways of watering there crops. But these solutions cost alot of money that many farmers dont have.

The government should do more to help. They need to give farmers money and teach them new ways to farm. Also everyone needs to stop polluting so much because thats what causes climate change in the first place. If we dont stop climate change, we wont have enough food for everyone.

This is a really serious problem that effects everyone because we all need food to survive. Climate change is making it harder to grow food and if we dont do something about it soon, many people will starve. We need to work together to solve this problem before its to late.
